Message-ID: <21613.23901.825225.271954@gargle.gargle.HOWL>
Date: Thu, 20 Nov 2014 14:17:49 +1100
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
To: Christian Vincenot <vincenot@bre.soc.i.kyoto-u.ac.jp>
Subject: Abstract
In-Reply-To: <546CD754.6030701@bre.soc.i.kyoto-u.ac.jp>
References: <1e2201d003d3$f854bc70$e8fe3550$@frontiersin.org>
	<546CD754.6030701@bre.soc.i.kyoto-u.ac.jp>
X-Mailer: VM 8.2.0b under 24.4.1 (x86_64-pc-linux-gnu)
FCC: ~/Mail/Outgoing
--text follows this line--

Hello Christian,

I was delighted to get confirmation from the editorial board people on
the waiver, I'll act on it right away ... well, as soon as I decide
what the title is going to be.  I *believe* that the paper should
either be a "Methods" paper or an "Original Research" paper, but I am
not really certain which ... if you have any insight, I'd be delighted
to have it!  Thankyou for keeping an eye on my progress, I'll do my
very best to make it worthwhile.

This is what I am looking at in terms of an abstract.  Unless there is
something that really doesn't fit well, I'll log it into the system in
the next couple of days.

  Hybrid modelling seeks to address problems associated with the
  representation of complex systems using ``single-paradigm'' models:
  where traditional models may represent an entire system as a
  cellular automaton, for example, component parts within a hybrid
  model may have representations which range anywhere between Markov
  chain models or individual-based models of organisms, through to
  fluid dynamics models of regional ocean currents or coupled
  population dynamics models. In this context, hybrid modellers try to
  choose the best representations for each component sub-model in
  order to maximise the utility of the model as a whole.

  Even with the flexibility afforded by the hybrid approach, component
  models and the dynamics associated with interacting models may be
  most efficient only in parts of the global state space of the
  system.  The immediate consequence of this possibility is that we
  consider adaptive hybrid models whose components may change their
  representation based on their own state and the states of the other
  sub-models within the system.

  This work presents a new strategy to manage such a system. A simple
  hybrid model of an artificial ecosystem with three species is
  developed and used to illuminate the process of dynamically
  determining an optimal set of representations for the component
  sub-models through the life of the simulation.  The structures and
  algorithms which facilitate adaptive representation are described in
  the context of a discussion of the dynamics in the example system.
  The mathematics which underpins the strategy is briefly described in
  an appendix.
  

Apart from a bit of "tennis elbow" from digging, all is well here
... spring is slipping into summer  and we're getting things cleared
up for the bush-fire season.  Hope you are well and the season isn't
hitting you with the winter colds & 'flus that seem to be a feature
here.

Cheers

	Randall





-- 
    Randall (randall@grayrabble.org)

