Simulation models are often comprised of a number of interacting
submodels of distinct components or processes.  Conventional models
typically represent these elements using a form which persists
throughout the simulation, such as numerical (equation based) models,
collections of discrete individuals, or "static" data sets.  Here, we
consider an alternative which allows the submodels representing the
components of a model to change in response to local and global
conditions in the model's state.

Since the performance of different representations (submodels) for a
component may depend on their state relative to the state space of the
component they represent, we may select more efficient representations
for the constituents of the model to optimise its performance with
respect to some objective, or we may select for representations which
benefit other components.

We construct a ring-like structure with trees as its elements.  The
trees are used to represent the loci of model components in their
state spaces with respect to known-good and known-bad
configurations. The strategy proposed is to define objective functions
over the elements of this ring which reflect the utility of submodels
with respect to the state of the model and its components.

This work can be readily applied to modelling ecosystems,
environmental impacts, epidemics, of contagion, and some genres of
computer games.  In principle, the approach may be of benefit in
domains such as disaster scenario modelling, predictive or control
systems for vehicles, immersive reality software.

The thesis incorporates two published papers demonstrating the utility
of the approach. Chapter 4 then describes the tree-based metric space
used for managing the configuration of models, followed by a chapter
which describes a detailed reference model which provides a framework
for the theoretical approach.

The implementation of the reference model discussed in Chapter 5 is
available under the AGPL v3 on

\URL{https://github.com/snarkypenguin/remodel.git}
