																Randall Gray
																rcgray@utas.edu.au

First, let me apologise for not actually managing the application for
a suspension of study and the progress reviews well. I am notoriously
bad at this sort of thing, and I am not good at "pushing things along"
... I am accused of being entirely too task focussed for my own
good. Apologies, too, for the delay in emailing this to you --- I've
been breathing life back into my computer this week and have just now
managed to make my historical email and work accessible. Currently
exotic things like browsers and X11 are off the table, but I hope to
have them working by Monday.

In August of 2011, Simon and I had "Increasing model efficiency by
dynamically changing model representations" in "Environmental
Modelling and Software" (DOI:10.1016/j.envsoft.2011.08.012), and I
believe that this is included in the progress reports to date.

I can't recall exactly when Barry Gardner retired, but I know that the
last review was done just before he did. We did it in a little room
with a photocopier or printer, perhaps off toward the geologists's
lairs on level two or three?

I can fill in the missing reports relatively quickly once I can get to
them. I will use previous years as a model to address the points for
the missing years so that we can deal with things quickly.

During 2012, 2013 and much of 2014, I was/have been working on a
mathematical structure to encode the state of a diverse set of
submodels. My aim was (and is) to allow us to use already existing
techniques (such as clustering) to assess how the current state of a
set of models compares with "known-good" and "known-bad"
configurations. The result is a (commutative) ring whose elements are
rooted trees with labelled, weighted nodes which form a metric
space. I believe that this structure will be amenable to common
clustering and categorising techniques.

At the end of August in 2014, I was invited to submit a paper for a
special issue of "Frontiers in Environmental Science", on the work
the first paper foreshadowed. From Sept. 2014 to Sept 2015,
I constructed a credible thought-model (and have partially implemented
it), finished the groundwork on the tree-structures and wrote the
paper (DOI:10.3389/fenvs.2015.00058) which was published in Aug 2015.


According to my email, I submitted a request to suspend study sometime
in the second half of 2014 -- I cannot actually see the status of the
request in iGrad, and my email doesn't give me a firm date for
submission.  I prodded Simon in face-to-face meetings after a month or
so had elapsed, subsequently emailed him in January and was assured that it
would be sorted out soon, and would retroactively apply from
Sept. 2014.

Unfortunately, I didn't draft the submission on my machine and
cut-and-paste it in as I usually do, though I do have emails
discussing the process (or lack of process).  While the PhD was
initially a means of getting to do some real research outside the
narrow confines the timelines within CSIRO dictated, I would like to
see it finished properly.  If you'd need any "outside" assessment of
the utility work, I can email you a list of people within UTAS that
know of it.

Many thanks, I hope it is possible to sort this out,

Best regards,

Randall




